Steps for Admission
1. Apply online at studyinfo.fi.
2. Upload attachment(s) to your application.
3. Take an online entrance exam or provide a SAT-test result.
4. Wait for the results until the given date.
5. Accept the study place if offered.
6. Enroll for the academic year.
7. Get a residence permit if needed.
8. Start studies.

The next application period is 3 – 17 January 2024 for applicants with a Finnish qualification.There are no entrance examinations in spring 2024, as all students are selected on the basis of their certificates.
The exception is the degree programme mentioned below, for which students are selected on the basis of a preliminary task and an online entrance examination. In the LAB Separate Application applicants are selected to bachelor's programmes that begin in autumn 2024. You are eligible to apply if you have completed or will complete your upper secondary education outside of Finland by 31 August 2024.

LAB charges tuition fees from students coming from outside of the EU/EEA.The annual tuition fee for students in Bachelor’s degree programmes is EUR 8000/year. In the first year, no one will be granted a scholarship. In the following years scholarship is a 50% reduction on the annual tuition fee. A student must complete at least 60 credits per academic year to be eligible for the scholarship.This policy will be applied until the end of the normative study time. In the LAB Separate Application applicants are selected to bachelor's programmes that begin in autumn 2024. You are eligible to apply if you have completed or will complete your upper secondary education outside of Finland by 31 August 2024.
Do you have a non-Finnish educational background and diplomas? Apply to LAB from 3 January to 17 January 2024 at 3 PM (UTC +2). Apply via StudyInfo: link to LAB Separate Application application form. (The form opens on 3 January at 8 a.m.)

Applicants are selected to bachelor's programmes that begin in autumn 2024. After the results are published, the study place must be accepted and possible tuition fee must be paid within 21 days to receive the 20% Early Bird discount.
Applicants can apply to one programme in the LAB Separate Application. Applicants who meet the eligibility criteria are set into the order of selection based on pre-defined criteria. In the LAB Separate Application, applicants can supplement their attachments up to 14 days after the end of the application period. Attachments must be uploaded to the application by 31 January 2024 at 3 pm UTC+2.
If the degree has been completed in a language other than English, Finnish or Swedish, the documents must be officially translated into either English, Finnish or Swedish. The selection of students is based on the information provided in the application form and attachments. Late or incomplete applications will not be processed during the student selection.
The decision on the selection will be notified to the applicants by 15 March 2024 at the latest.

All applicants must fulfill the general eligibility requirements for higher education. You are eligible to apply if you have completed (or in spring 2024 will complete) your general or vocational upper secondary education outside of Finland, e.g., a high school diploma. The qualification must give eligibility to higher education studies in the country where the degree has been completed.
The language of instruction is English. There are certain language requirements to be met. One of the following language test results in English meeting the minimum score mentioned is required to provide your proficiency in English.
All following language tests are accepted by LAB University of Applied Sciences and are valid for two years from the date of taking the test.

IELTS Academic, IELTS indicator or IELTS Online	Minimum score 6.0 (writing band score 5.5)
PTE Academic or PTE Academic Online	Minimum score 58
TOEFL iBT and TOEFL iBT Home Edition	Minimum score 80 (writing score min. 20)
C1 Advanced or C2 Proficiency	Minimum Score level C
Cambridge B2 First	Minimum score 170
Cambridge International IGCSE	First language in English Syllabus 0500 and 0990
SAT test Evidence-Based Reading and Writing	Minimum score 550

A language test is not required when you have completed an upper secondary degree or a Bachelor/Master level degree in English at an institution located in the following countries: an EU or EEA country, Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, or the United States.
If the results need to be verified via the test organizer’s webpage, remember to verify the results before applying. If we cannot verify your language test results, the results cannot be used as proof of your English language skills.

Applicants must meet the minimum arithmetic average requirement and language proficiency result criteria of the program to be eligible.The evaluation is conducted in two stages.First, the applicant's arithmetic average is evaluated from 0 to 100, and then scored accordingly. Applicants must have a minimum of 70% of the maximum score.
In the second phase, the language proficiency results are scored. Finnish universities and universities of applied sciences are legally obliged to charge tuition fees as of 1.8.2017 from those new students who come from non-EU/EEA countries. This applies to all new degree students from these countries, who start their studies in August 2017 or later, and study in the degree programmes which are taught in English.
Tuition fees at LAB University of Applied Sciences
 
Tuition fee academic year 2023-2024 and 2024-2025
As of 1st of August 2021 the tuition fee for new students from the non-EU/EEA countries per academic year is 8000 € for Bachelor’s Degree Programmes and 9,000 € for Master's Degree. The tuition fee must be paid as a single instalment by the date set. Due date of the tuition fee is usually the same date as when the place of study is to be accepted. In the spring of 2024, the date is July 11, 2024.
When you have been accepted to study at LAB University of Applied Sciences, you must pay the tuition fee in three week's time to receive the Early bird discount of 20%. If the tuition fee is paid after the deadline, the tuition fee must be paid in full.

EARLY BIRD TUITION FEES for Bachelor’s degree programmes EUR 6 400 and Master’s degree programmes EUR 7 200

When paying the tuition fee after the early bird discount period, you will need to pay the regular tuition fee. The fees are

Bachelor’s degree programmes EUR 8 000
Master’s degree programmes EUR 9 000
The deadline for the tuition fee payment is 11 July 2024 for you to maintain your study place at LAB University of Applied Sciences at joint application, spring 2024.

The sooner you accept a study place and pay the tuition fee, the sooner you can start your visa application process to ensure you receive your visa in time for your arrival.

>> LAB Refund policy 2023-24

 

Scholarship
In the first academic year, no one will be granted a scholarship by LAB University of Applied Sciences. The scholarship is a 50% reduction on the annual tuition fee. A student must complete 60 credits per academic year to be eligible for the scholarship. This policy will be applied until the end of the study time.

The credits must accumulate steadily over the duration of your studies:

Bachelor's degree programmes: 60 credits after the first year, 120 credits after the second year and 180 credits after the third year.
Master's degree programmes: 20 credits after the first year, 40 credits after the second year
 
Tuition fee earlier academic years
Students who have started their studies on 1st of January 2021 or have started their studies earlier, the tuition fee is € 5,400 per year for Bachelor’s Degree Programmes and € 6,400 for Master's Degree.

The tuition fee must be paid as a single installment by the date set. Due date of the tuition fee is usually the same date as when the place of study is to be accepted.

 

Exemption from the tuition fee.In order to be exempted from the tuition fee at LAB, an applicant must upload to the application a copy of one of the following documents

Passport or identity card to indicate the citizenship of EU/EEA/Switzerland
EU Blue Card in Finland
Continuous residence permit card in Finland, Type A-permit. (Type A-permit, granted for other than study purposes). PLEASE NOTE: IF YOU HAVE A-PERMIT FOR STUDY PURPOSES, YOU HAVE TO PAY TUITION FEE.
*EU Family Member's Residence Card in Finland
Permanent residence permit card in Finland (Type P permit)
EU residence permit for third-country citizens with long term residence permit card in Finland (Type P-EU)
Brexit residence permit card, Type SEU-sopimuksen 50 artikla = Right of residence under the withdrawal agreement, or P SEU-sopimuksen 50 artikla = Right of permanent residence under the withdrawal agreement
Proof from the Finnish Immigration Services that I have registered, or applied to register, my EU right to residence in Finland (UK-citizens)
* The term ‘family member’ refers to married spouses and partners who are cohabiting or in a registered partnership. Also regarded as family members are children under the age of 18 years (children of one’s own, adopted children or children of one’s spouse or partner if living in the same household).

Note: if you receive one of the documents mentioned above at any point of the admission process, please provide us a copy of the document as soon as possible at admissions@lab.fi.

Citizens of Finland are not required to provide proof of their citizenship as it will be verified from the population register.The document exempting from the tuition fee must be valid when the semester begins, on 1 August in order for it to be considered for studies starting in autumn term and on 1 January in order for them to be considered for studies starting in spring term.
When the document you have used to justify your exemption from the tuition fee is expiring or has already expired, please deliver to us a new document stating the grounds for exemption from the tuition fee to the email address: LAB.Scholarship@lab.fi
 
Residence permit (for non-EU/EEA students). If you are planning to become a student at LAB, tuition fees and living costs are the main areas to consider when allocating your finances.If a student resides outside Europe, a residence permit application should be submitted as soon as possible after having received the study place. During the residence permit process, the Finnish Immigration Service has to make sure that the person applying for a residence permit has sufficient means to live in Finland. For a one-year residence permit, you must have at least € 6,720 available for your use. To receive a positive decision for a one-year residence permit a student has to pay the tuition fee, show funds of € 6,720 for the cost of living (for accommodation, food and other needs)  and a health insurance must be valid for at least one year from the date a student arrives in Finland. You must have the required sum for the cost of living in your own bank account. The reason for the negative decision is usually that the student has not been able to show sufficient funds to cover the cost of living. More information on Migri's website.
To ensure that non-European students have sufficient funds to study, a financial guarantee is required. This is part of the residence permit process. EU/EEA students: EU citizens have the right to work, study or live in Finland without a residence permit.

Everyone can find an apartment in Lappeenranta. You can apply for student accommodation with the Lappeenranta Student Housing Foundation LOAS, municipal rental apartments from the Lappeenranta city, or apartments on the
private market.The high-quality LOAS apartments are well maintained. Most of them are located near the campus, but some are also available in the city centre. Rents are reasonable both at
LOAS and on the private rental market.

1. The Education System in Finland receives praise around the World and
repeatedly obtains high PISA scores. 2. Finland is yet again the safest and happiest place in the world according to the
World Happiness Report 2023. According to the World Economic Forum 2023,
Finland has topped the World Happiness Report rankings for the sixth year running.
3. One of the best countries to study in. Finland has featured as one of the top ranked countries in StudyPortal’s International Student Satisfaction Awards

4. Good study environments and highly qualified teachers. According to the
International Student Barometer and the National Agency for Education, international students are satisfied with the facilities and learning environments in Finland.
5. Wide range of support and career services. Finnish universities of applied
sciences offer many services for students, such as discount meals in student cafeterias, health care services, student unions and organisations, and student counselling services.